Title: survey report on types of Blockchains and its real time use cases.
Problem Statement: Write and survey report on blockchain technology

Theory:
Blockchain Concepts:
Blockchain can be defined as an immutable distributed digital ledger, which is secured using advanced
cryptography, replicated among the peer nodes in the peer-to-peer network, and uses consensus mechanism to
agree upon the transaction log, whereas control is decentralized. With this definition, paper identifies following
concepts as the core concepts to unwrap the meaning of blockchain—immutable, distributed, digital ledger,
cryptography, peer-to-peer network, consensusmechanism, decentralization. In accounting, a ledger is a place to
record and store all thetransactions with regard to an entity. A digital ledger could be a computer file, or database,
or even distributed database like blockchain, where transactions are recorded electronically. Blockchain
transaction ledger is pretty unique to other ledgers in a manner, which ensures that transaction log is
computationally impractical to change, as long as honest nodes in the network control the majority of CPU power,
thus making it immutable. The origins of ledger can be traced back to over5000 years ago in Mesopotamia. The
Earliest and simplest form of recording transactions is called single entry accounting, which enters transactions
into a list to keep track of adding or deducting assets. The single entry accounting was managed by owners or
family members, as this kind of recordings are error-prone as well as difficult to track down, when recorded
fraudulently. Double entry accounting added a clear strategy to identify and remove errors, where there are two
entries recorded against each transaction, so that the ledger is balanced all the time. Grigg proposed tripleentry
accounting in 2005, an alternative to traditional double entry accounting, which secures transactions using
cryptography in order to make it difficult to change. Blockchain implements triple entry accounting concept to
permanently store transactions in blockchain, ensuring that the sender has authority to execute non-reversible
transactions using public-key cryptography.

Cryptography can be defined as techniques used for secure communication to protect confidentialinformation, in
the presence of adversaries. Blockchain uses concepts from public keycryptosystems to verify the authority of
the user to execute transactions, and cryptographic hashfunctions to achieve consensus between network nodes
on blockchain data. The use of public keycryptosystems to provide digital signatures was suggested by Diffie and
Hellman. Digital signatures, whether based on public key cryptosystems, conventional encryption functions,
onprobabilistic computations, or other techniques share several important properties in common—such as an
easier way for the sender to generate the personal digital signature, convenient way forreceiver to verify the
sender of the message, but must be impossible to generate someone else’sdigital signature by others. In public
key cryptography, there exists two keys called public andprivate and a function or cypher algorithm to encrypt
the original text into a ciphertext using theprivate encryption key. Sender or owner generates the public–private
key pair and keepsthe privatekey as the confidential key to encrypt information; public key is distributed to anyone
to verify thatthe information is digitally signed by the original owner. This public key cryptography techniqueis
used in blockchain to verify the ownership of coins or tokens,
whenever transferring coins or tokens. One another important concept used in blockchain to secureits data integrity
is cryptographic hash function—a one-way function that maps strings of arbitrarysize into a bit string of fixed size
called hash using a mathematical algorithm. An algorithm requiredfor blockchain hash functions has three main
properties—same input should always result in with the same output hash, given the hash no algorithm could
produce the original input, small changesin input results in completely different output hash. Bitcoin uses SHA256 hash function, whereasEthereum uses Ethash, and Litecoin uses Scrypt when hashing its block data.

Blockchain Types
According to our survey findings, blockchains can be categorized into two main types namely
permissionless blockchains and permissioned blockchains.
-Permissionless
Blockchains
Permissionless blockchains do not enforce any restrictions on its nodes; anyone can openly read data, inspect
data, and participate in validation and writing of the data in accordance with the consensus protocol of the
particular blockchain. Bitcoin, Ethereum and many other cryptocurrencies run on permissionless blockchains.
These blockchains are considered fully decentralized and secured using advanced cryptography, whereas
economic incentives are provided for users who work to keep the integrity of the network. The transactions are
completely irreversible on a permissionless blockchain by its design, meaning once confirmed by its nodes the
blockchain transactions cannot be reversed. Due to the security considerations andstrict restrictions, transaction
throughput of a permissionless blockchain is comparatively lesser than one of a permissioned blockchain. Permissionless blockchains are fully decentralized and transparent.

-Permissioned
Blockchains:
Permissioned blockchains restrict the writing access for a limited set of participants, and a consensus mechanism
is used to validate the writing of data among its privileged participants. Read access could either be open to
anyone or closed to the public based on the requirement of the permissioned blockchain. This type of blockchains
has evolved as an alternative to initial permissionless blockchains, to address the requirement for running
blockchain technology among a set of known and identifiable participants that have to be explicitly responsible
to the blockchain network, while participants need not be fully trusting each other. The permissioned
blockchains are mainly useful for business and social applications, which requires blockchain distributed
ledger technology without the need of a in centifying cryptocurrency. Based on the read access
mentioned, permissioned blockchains are further divided as open and closed—open permissioned blockchains
are partially decentralized, anyone can read its data, whereas closed permissioned blockchains are fully
centralized, data is visible only to the participants.
We thoroughly believe blockchain technology is rather necessary only for permissionless blockchains, and open
permissioned blockchains. Closed permissioned blockchains can be argued as restricted distributed databases
which are facelifted with the blockchain term. The initial idea of introducing blockchain concept was to remove
centralization and add transparency to everyone to read and update its data. Open permissioned blockchains
mostly adhere to this principle of transparency even though somewhat centralized in writing its data and could be
useful for applications such as identity systems, academic certification systems, where anyone can read its
data but only a certain set of participants are privileged to write the data into blockchain. Closed permissioned
blockchains are fully centralized and also not transparent to anyone, dismantling the core concept of a
blockchain. Therefore, these blockchains can be replaced with distributed database systems with restrictions
implemented on top of it. For example, a supply chain management system for a private organization can be
implemented without the concepts of blockchain. In order to support our argument on closed permissioned
blockchains, we have presented a characteristic comparison of different blockchain types compared with
restricted distributed database system. The comparison shows that all of the characteristics in closed permissioned
blockchains are comparatively similar to that of restricted database systems. In addition to this categorization,
there is also another blockchain categorization called public, consortium, and private blockchains In simple terms,
public blockchains are permissionless blockchains, whereas consortium and private blockchains fall into
permissioned blockchains


Real Time blockchain use cases
Blockchain technology’s core characteristics include decentralization, transparency,
immutability, and automation. These elements can be applied to various industries,
creating a multitude of use cases. Here are what we believe to be the most pertinent
blockchain use cases for enterprises, institutions, and governments.
Capital Markets
For capital markets, blockchain unlocks easier, cheaper, and faster access to capital. It reducesthe barriers to
issuance and enables peer-to-peer trading, faster and more transparent settlement and clearing, reduced costs,
decreased counterparty risks, and streamlined auditing and compliance.
Central Bank Digital Currencies CBDC
CBDCs are a digital form of central bank money that offers central banks unique advantages at the retail and
wholesale levels, including increased financial access for individual customers anda more efficient infrastructure
for interbank settlements.
Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
Decentralized finance—DeFi—refers to the shift from traditional, centralized financial systemsto peer-to-peer
finance enabled by decentralized technologies built on Ethereum. Millions are building and participating in this
new economic system that is setting new standards for financial access, opportunity, and trust.
Digital Identity
A blockchain-based digital identity system provides a unified, interoperable, and tamper-proof infrastructure with
key benefits to enterprises, users, and IoT management systems. The solution protects against theft and provides
individuals greater sovereignty over their data.
Finance
Financial services struggle with archaic operational processes, slow payment settlements, limited transparency,
and security vulnerabilities. Blockchain enhances the efficient digitization of financial instruments, which
increases liquidity, lowers cost of capital, and reduces counterparty risk.
Energy and Sustainability
Oil and gas companies suffer from siloed infrastructures and a lack of transparency, efficiency, and optimization.
Enterprise-grade blockchain solutions can significantly increase process efficiencies and reduce costs associated
with oil and gas operations and distribution.
Department of Computer Engineering Course : Laboratory Practice
Department of Computer Engineering, NBN Sinhgad School of Engineering, Pune
Global Trade and Commerce
Major trading companies and consortiums are recognizing the transformative impact of blockchain in operating
global supply chains, managing trade finance, and unlocking new business models. ConsenSys’ blockchain
products offer secure digitization, enabling the tokenization of existing documents, letters of credit, and more.
Government and the Public Sector
Ethereum blockchain technology allows governments to build trust, improve accountability and responsiveness,
increase efficiency, reduce costs, and create high-performing government functions with more secure, agile, and
cost-effective structures.
Healthcare and the Life Sciences
Blockchain-based healthcare solutions will enable faster, more efficient, and more secure medical data
management and medical supply tracking. This could significantly improve patient care, facilitate the
advancement to medical discoveries, and ensure the authenticity of drugs circulating global markets.
Real Estate
Enterprise Ethereum enables the digitization of assets and financial instruments. This enhances fractionalization
of ownership, expanded access to global markets, increased liquidity, and democratized access to real estate
investment opportunities.
Supply Chain Management
Existing global supply chains are inefficient, poorly tracked, and oftentimes exploitative. Blockchain can
facilitate accurate asset tracking, enhanced licensing of services, products, and software, and transparency into
the provenance of consumer goods, from sourcing to the pointof consumption